5.0.2rc2 patch series (#12299)
open-mpi/ompi: docs/news/news-v5.0.x.rst

This file contains all the NEWS updates for the Open MPI v5.0.x
series, in reverse chronological order.

Open MPI version v5.0.2rc2
--------------------------
:Date: 31 January 2024

- Internal PMIx and PRRTe versions:

  - PMIx (v4.2.8). Commit hash: ``d1c1ed0c2e64f19ad49291241a43630ea7fdce28``.
  - PRRTE (v3.0.3). Commit hash: ``e383f5ad70c2633420d3425e9fb67e69b6bfd9c4``.

>   .. note:: 5.0.2rc2 has pinned PMIx and PRRTe to the respective previous
>             release tags. This effectively excludes the submodule updates
>             in rc1. This action is needed in order to ensure the internal
>             modules always refer to stable releases that can be matched by
>             external installations.

Reviewer: This is not word wrapped well here in the github UI, but I suggest text something like the following:

```suggestion
  .. note:: 5.0.2rc2 has pinned PMIx and PRRTe to the respective previous
            release tags (...list the actual release tags here...). This effectively excludes the PMIx and PRRTE submodule updates
            that were included in rc1. We are specifically choosing to do this because the Open MPI community
            needs a v5.0.2 release before we can do full testing with the upcoming PMIx v4.2.WHATEVER release.  We expect to have an Open MPI v5.0.3 release in the near future with the upcoming PRRTE vWHATEVER and PMIX vWHATEVER releases.
```

Reviewer: Also, I think you need to include a list of known issues that have been fixed since the previous PMIX/PRRTE release tags that will now not be included in v5.0.2[rcX].

Author: Please see update. I want to be concise with this paragraph, so I picked out the most relevant change in pmix/prrte which is the pset membership query bugfix from Howard.

I disagree on promising a specific release that will include new prrte/pmix - the release might happen for a different reason. We will evaluate case by case.

This file contains all the NEWS updates for the Open MPI v5.0.x
series, in reverse chronological order.

Open MPI version v5.0.2rc2
--------------------------
:Date: 31 January 2024

- Internal PMIx and PRRTe versions:

  - PMIx (v4.2.8). Commit hash: ``d1c1ed0c2e64f19ad49291241a43630ea7fdce28``.
  - PRRTE (v3.0.3). Commit hash: ``e383f5ad70c2633420d3425e9fb67e69b6bfd9c4``.

>   .. note:: Due to the urgency of 5.0.2 release, the following modules are
>             pinned to the same versions as 5.0.1: PMIx(v4.2.8), PRRTe(v3.0.3).
>             This ensures the modules always refer to stable releases that can
>             be matched by external installations.
>             As a result, changes in newer PMIx/PRRTe are excluded, notably
>             PMIX_QUERY_PSET_MEMBERSHIP query bugfixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. note:: Due to the timing of Open MPI v5.0.2 release, the PMIx and PRRTE versions that are internally bundled in the Open MPI distribution are the same versions as in the Open MPI v5.0.1 release: PMIx v4.2.8 and PRRTE v3.0.3.
            As a result, changes and bug fixes in newer PMIx and PRRTE reases not included in Open MPI v5.0.2, notably:
           * PMIX_QUERY_PSET_MEMBERSHIP queries can fail
           * ...list other known issues...
```

We should list all the known issues.  This doc is Google-able, after all.

Author: Updated

This file contains all the NEWS updates for the Open MPI v5.0.x
series, in reverse chronological order.

Open MPI version v5.0.2rc2
--------------------------
:Date: 31 January 2024

- Internal PMIx and PRRTe versions:

  - PMIx (v4.2.8). Commit hash: ``d1c1ed0c2e64f19ad49291241a43630ea7fdce28``.
  - PRRTE (v3.0.3). Commit hash: ``e383f5ad70c2633420d3425e9fb67e69b6bfd9c4``.

  .. note:: Due to the urgency of 5.0.2 release, the following modules are
            pinned to the same versions as 5.0.1: PMIx(v4.2.8), PRRTe(v3.0.3).
            This ensures the modules always refer to stable releases that can
            be matched by external installations.

>             As a result, changes in newer PMIx/PRRTe are excluded, notably:

Reviewer: Due to the timing of Open MPI v5.0.2 release, the PMIx and PRRTE versions that are internally bundled in the Open MPI distribution are the same versions as in the Open MPI v5.0.1 release: PMIx v4.2.8 and PRRTE v3.0.3.  As a result, changes and bug fixes in newer PMIx and PRRTE releases not included in Open MPI v5.0.2, notably:

Author: Fixed.

Reviewer: Let me provide some rationale:

* If you say "urgency" without explaining what the urgency is, that will lead to speculation (e.g., users may wonder if there's a critical bug -- there's not -- the urgency is for a particular OMPI community member who wants a release for internal reasons).  Instead, say "timing".
* It's PRRTE.  It's not PRRTe.
* Be consistent with version numbers: always a v prefix.
* Since there's so many different products / projects being here, don't like naked version numbers -- always be explicit about which project you're referring to.
* Don't say "modules" -- the fact that we use git submodules is effectively an internal implementation detail.  We have language elsewhere in the docs about "internal" and "bundled".  Use that similar language here.

>             PRRTe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            PRRTE
```

Author: Fixed.
